# Welcome to my ePortfolio
Please visit my GitHub Pages site for a better experience: [yahirrendon.github.io](https://yahirrendon.github.io/index.html)

Three projects were selected to encapsulate my abilities as a software engineer in this portfolio. The first is a weather station project from work I did in CS-350, Emerging Systems Architectures and Technologies. The original projects consisted of creating an embedded system using a RaspberryPi and sensors to collect weather data at specified intervals. This data was then displayed to a local web dashboard. This project and its enhancements demonstrate my abilities in software design and engineering by creating a responsive and user driver interface for the web dashboard that is also scalable with more cities and data in the future. This project was also chosen to demonstrate my skill implementing algorithms and working with various data structures. The data collected can be sorted and reversed using algorithms and temperature values can also be searched using two different search algorithms. 

The second and third projects were used to demonstrate my database abilities. The first being an Android mobile application from CS-360 that uses a SQLite database for creating a user profile and tracking user weight entries. This project inspired the third artifact of this portfolio which is a weight tracking web application in which a backend and API was created that allowed similar functionality as the mobile app. However, this project took advantage of a more advanced backend to implement improved security and community sharing of weight entries. 

### Project Summaries
#### [Weather Station Project](https://github.com/yahirRendon/weather_station)
The artifact I chose to use to demonstrate my software design and engineering abilities is the weather station project from CS-350, Emerging Technologies. This project was created in December 2020 as a columniation of work in the final milestone. It consisted of using a RaspberryPi and the GroovePi HAT/sensors to collect weather data. A JSON file is updated at 30-minute intervals during daylight hours only. The specific data collected consists of temperature, humidity, light sensitivity, and dates. Each reading and the data collected is then displayed in a local web dashboard. After developing a user driven interface for the weather station dashboard that demonstrated my software design and engineering abilities, I decided to use this same project to showcase my skill in algorithms and data structures. 

#### [Weight Tracker Mobile Project](https://github.com/yahirRendon/my_weight_mobile)
To demonstrate my database abilities, I have selected a mobile application I first developed in CS360 in February of 2021. In this project, I created an Android mobile application that allowed a user to track their weight towards a target weight over time. The mobile app has multiple activities or screens which include a login, profile, settings, and main activity that displays weight data to the user and allows them to enter new weight data. Critical to this project was the use of a database for storing user profile data and user weight entries.


#### [Weight Tracker Web Project](https://github.com/yahirRendon/my_weight_web)
To further demonstrate my ability to work with databases I used my work on the mobile weight trackign app as an inspiration for creating a web based version that required the developmentof a backend and API routes to connect the front end with a database. 
